p.s. My name is spelled "Joseph Pisano"

3 Technical Approach
3.1 Dataset
We use the Kaggle... (whats already written). This dataset contains 4,300 images in it's training set. While relatively small this dataset was chosen for it's labelling, as each of these images is labeled with proper YOLO annotation, which gives a bounding box around the license plates in each image. This saves us the step of either manually annotating each image we wish to use from some other dataset or alternatively attempting to use a model for unlabeled data, which introduces a lot more risk of failure and overall would require far more time than was available for this project. Additionally this dataset has a set of 1,000 validation images also labeled for proper performance evaluation.
3.2
Due to this dataset using Yolo labels we elected to utilize transfer learning with a generalized image detection model like yolov5. This also is what allowed us to work with this relatively small dataset, as we were finetuning the model rather than starting training from scratch, in which case the dataset likely wouldn't have been sufficient. Yolov5 also gave us the freedom of selecting from several different size models, of which we chose yolov5s, their second smallest model, as we needed one with very fast inference for the purpose of running on video data, which for dashcams is typically 30 fps. For the finetuning process we cut off the first and last layers, altering them to take in our 640x640 dashcam image and output the Yolo detection label with the boxes of detections.
3.3
For loss we pull in the ComputeLoss function from the Yolov5 library, as the model is specifically designed to utilize this loss function.
3.4
Training utilizes an Adam optimizer and we landed on 20 epochs with a batch size of 32 for training. Not too many epochs were needed due to us focusing on just finetuning this model. We maintained many of the initial hyperparameters for the Yolov5 model but removed several of the image transformations that could cause label mismatches. Due to us having the particular goal of training for dashcam images we were fine with the model learning to look at particular parts of the screen (generally the lower half) as in practice that would be where license plates tend to be.
3.5
For inference we create a function that gathers all predictions for an image, and then removes any under a certain confidence threshold. After a few attempts we found a confidence threshold of 0.18 gave the most consistent results, cutting out most mistakes in the model whilst still giving it the ability to detect further / smaller license plates in an image. For running on video we run each frame through this inference function and drawing a box around each detection that isn't cut due to the threshold. Then each frame is reconstructed in order back into the original video.